Some questions.

Why animations? What can animations do that chalk and board can't?

A chalk and board lecture is a function of time. It has the data of a piecewise
smooth curve, gamma:C -> R^2, together with a set valued function of time, 
S[gamma]:C -> P(R^2), with C = [a,b], defined S[gamma](t) = {gamma(tau) | a < tau < t}.
Alternatively, we can define gamma_T:[a,T] -> R^2. Then S[gamma](t) = Im(gamma_t).

This assumes an infinite blackboard and no erasure. This is nice as with no
erasure, the data from S is the same as that from gamma. But from an
informational point of view, erasure does not give us information. We can see it
as a way of turning a finite blackboard into an infinite one. 

There is also an audio stream. Simplifying, this is a function taking time to a 
subset of R bounded below by the minimum amplitude detectable by a human and
bounded above by an amplitude that could rupture your eardrum. This changes less
going from a real life chalkboard lecture to a video, it is mostly visually that
we get far greater control in animation. We can use audio cues which is a bit
more natural in video than in real life.

We can take the 'notes' of the lecture to be S[gamma](b). This is strictly less
information as we lose the time dependence. With text, we lose less as there is
a standard way of interpreting static text which agrees with the time dependence
of text in the lecture. But with diagrams, we can lose more.

What new capabilities does animation give? 

We can list a few features of animation. It is easy to add colour, more so than 
in chalk talks. They are exact, which in some contexts is not important, and in 
other contexts is very important.

But most importantly, there is far more control over the visual data-stream. A
chalk talk is essentially a 1-dimensional stream of data. An animation image (a 
static one) is a 'colour valued matrix', or alternatively can be viewed as a map
from a pixel location to a colour. Then, an animation is a matrix valued function
of time, or a colour valued function of time and pixel location. Then if there
are N pixels on the screen, we now have an N dimensional stream of data, with N 
on the order of a million on current displays. 

E.g. complex maps. On chalk, can draw pointwise transformations. But with
animation, can make sets of points move. This allows faster understanding of how
a cx transformation acts in general on points. I think animations get maps 
across better than chalk can.

E.g. algebra. Despite the great utility in transformations for building
intuition, we can't use pictures and graphs alone to prove results rigorously.
But we can see algebraic manipulations as transformations of equations!

Note: a good enough imagination is an acceptable substitute for diagrams
(static or otherwise) and animations. But animations are a nice way to visualise.


What are the limitations of animation and visualisation? What are the capabilities?

1d: easy. boring.
2d: sweet spot of as much info as possible without being confusing
3d: still possible, since we have so much intuition of turning 2d projections
into 3d objects in our heads
4d: pretty tricky
>5d: good luck

Another limitation is dealing with infinities. Infinite processes are impossible
to compute. So for example if considering a map from the complex numbers to the
complex numbers, we can restrict to a compact subset on which the interesting
behaviour happens. Thankfully, if there is some compact subset, then we can 
always fit it onto a screen using rescaling. 

E.g. the Mandelbrot set. With F(z) = z**2 + c, we know that if |c| > 2, then z_n
goes to infinity. E.g. 2 Dynamical systems. If we show that there is a basin of
attraction, need only show on the basis of attraction. E.g. 3 Linear maps. These
extend linearly, so can find behaviour using a basis, or perhaps a parallelogram.

Alternatively, exploit periodicity. Here we essentially quotient out to again
get a compact set.

Also problems when getting infinitely small, dual problem to infinitely large.
Area of numerical analysis.
